Probability Distribution and Statistical Functions -- Uniform Distribution Module (#272)
fortran-lang/stdlib: doc/specs/stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform.md

### Example

```fortran
program demo_shuffle
    use stdlib_stats_distribution_PRNG, only : random_seed
    use stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform, only : shuffle
    implicit none
    integer :: seed_put, seed_get, i
    real :: x(10)
    integer :: n(10)
    complex :: z(10)

    do i=1, 10
        n(i) = i
        x(i) = real(i)
        z(i) = cmplx(real(i), real(i))
    end do
    seed_put = 32165498
    call random_seed(seed_put, seed_get)    ! set and get current value of seed
    n = shuffle(n)                          ! get randomized n
![10, 6, 9, 2, 8, 1, 3, 5, 7, 4]
    x = shuffle(x)                          ! get randomized x
! [5.0, 10.0, 9.0, 4.0, 3.0, 8.0, 2.0, 1.0, 7.0, 6.0]
    z = shuffle(z)                          ! get randomized z
![(8.0, 8.0), (7.0, 7.0), (4.0, 4.0), (1.0, 1.0), (5.0, 5.0), (9.0, 9.0),
!(6.0, 6.0), (3.0, 3.0), (2.0, 2.0), (10.0, 10.0)]
end program demo_shuffle
```

## `uniform_distribution_rvs` - uniform distribution random variates

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Without augument the function returns a scalar standard uniformly distributed variate U(0,1) of real type with single precision on [0,1].

> With single augument `scale` of integer type the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed variate of integer type on [0,scale]. This is the standard Rectangular distribtuion. Function is elemental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With single augument `scale` of integer type the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed variate of integer type on [0,scale]. This is the standard Rectangular distribution. The function is elemental.
```

---
title: stats_distribution
---

# Statistical Distributions -- Uniform Distribution Module

[TOC]

## `shuffle` - Using Fisher-Yates algorithm to generate a random permutation of a list.

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Applying Fisher-Yates algorithm to generate an unbiased permutation for any list of intrinsic numerical data types.

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):shuffle(interface)]]( list )`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Class
Function.
```

### Return value

Return a randomized rank one array of the input type.

### Example

```fortran
program demo_shuffle
    use stdlib_stats_distribution_PRNG, only : random_seed
    use stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform, only : shuffle
    implicit none
    integer :: seed_put, seed_get, i
    real :: x(10)
    integer :: n(10)
    complex :: z(10)

    do i=1, 10
        n(i) = i
        x(i) = real(i)
        z(i) = cmplx(real(i), real(i))
    end do
    seed_put = 32165498
    call random_seed(seed_put, seed_get)    ! set and get current value of seed
    print *, shuffle(n)                          ! get randomized n

!10   6   9   2   8   1   3   5   7   4

    print *, shuffle(x)                          ! get randomized x

!5.0   10.0   9.0   4.0   3.0   8.0   2.0   1.0   7.0   6.0

    print *, shuffle(z)                          ! get randomized z

!(8.0, 8.0)    (7.0, 7.0)    (4.0, 4.0)    (1.0, 1.0)    (5.0, 5.0)
!(9.0, 9.0)    (6.0, 6.0)    (3.0, 3.0)    (2.0, 2.0)    (10.0, 10.0)

end program demo_shuffle
```

## `uniform_distribution_rvs` - uniform distribution random variates

### Status

Experimental

### Description

> Without augument the function returns a scalar standard uniformly distributed variate U(0,1) of `real` type with single precision on [0,1].

Reviewer: Should the default be `single precision` or `double precision`?

Author: It is hard to choose. Most people use single precision, some may use double. If most agree on double precision, we can always switch.

Reviewer: In `stdlib_stats`, the default is `dp`. However, It might make sense to use `sp` as default here.
Let see what others think about that.

Reviewer 2: There may be merit in making this a subroutine, rather than a function, so that the user can control the output precision (via the input variable)?

With single augument `scale` of `integer` type the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed variate of `integer` type on [0,scale]. This is the standard Rectangular distribtuion. Function is elemental.

> With single augument `scale` of `real` or `complex` type the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed variate of `real` or `complex` type on [0, scale]. The real part and imaginary part of a `complex` type are independent of each other. Function is elemental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With single augument `scale` of `real` or `complex` type the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed variate of `real` or `complex` type on [0, scale]. The real part and imaginary part of a `complex` type are independent of each other.
```

> With double auguments `loc` and `scale` the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed random variates of `integer`, `real` or `complex` type on [loc, loc + scale] dependent of input type. If it is `complex` augument, the real part and imaginary part are independent of each other. Function is elemental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With double auguments `loc` and `scale` the function returns a scalar uniformly distributed random variates of `integer`, `real` or `complex` type on [loc, loc + scale] dependent of input type. If it is `complex` augument, the real part and imaginary part are independent of each other.
```

With triple auguments `loc`, `scale` and `array_size` the function returns a rank one array of uniformly distributed variates of `integer`, `real` or `complex` type with an array size of `array_size`.

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):uniform_distribution_rvs(interface)]]([[loc,] scale] [[[,array_size]]])`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Class
Elemental function.

```

### Arguments

> `loc`: optional argument has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`loc`: Shall be a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`. This argument is `optional` and `intent(in)`. 
```

Similar for the other ones?

Reviewer 3: Either seems fine to me.

! 0.494320452   0.419343710   -0.103044361   0.461389005   0.403132677
! 0.121850729   0.403839290   -0.349389791   0.490482628   0.156600773
! 8.46788883E-02   -0.483680278   0.388107836   0.119698405   0.154214382
! 0.153113484   0.236523747   0.155937552   -0.135760903   0.219589531
! 0.394639254   6.30156994E-02   -0.342692465   -0.444846451   -0.215700030
! 0.204189956   -0.208748132   0.355063021   8.98272395E-02   -0.237928331
! 2.98077464E-02   -0.485149682   -8.06870461E-02   -0.372713923
! -0.178335011   0.283877611   -2.13934183E-02   -9.21690464E-03
! 4.56320047E-02   0.220112979

end program demo_uniform_rvs
```

## `uniform_distribution_pdf` - Uniform probability density function

### Status

Experimental

### Description

The probability density function of the uniform distribution.

f(x) = 1 / (scale + 1);            for discrete uniform distribution
f(x) = 1 / scale;                  for continuous uniform distribution
f(x) = 1 / (scale%re * scale%im);  for complex uniform distribution

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):uniform_distribution_pdf(interface)]](x, loc, scale)`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Class
Elemental function.

```

### Arguments

`x`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`loc`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`scale`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

> The function is elemental, i.e., all three auguments could be arrays conformable to each other. All three arguments must have the same type and kind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All three arguments must have the same type and kind.
```

    a(:,:,:) = 0.0
    b(:,:,:) = 2.0
    x = reshape(uni(0.,2.,60),[3,4,5])! uniform random variates array in [0., 2.]
    print *, uni_pdf(x, a, b)         ! probability density array in [0., 2.]

! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000
! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000

    loc = (-0.5,-0.5)
    scale = (1.0,1.0)
    print *, uni_pdf((-0.1,0.2), loc, scale)
    ! joint probability density at (-0.1,0.2) in [(-0.5, -0.5), (0.5, 0.5)]

! 1.00000000
end program demo_uniform_pdf

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## `uniform_distribution_cdf` - Uniform cumulative distribution function

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Cumulative distribution function of the uniform distribution

F(x) = (x - loc + 1) / (scale + 1);      for discrete uniform distribution
F(x) = (x - loc) / scale;                for continuous uniform distribution
F(x) = (x%re - loc%re)(x%im - loc%im) / (scale%re * scale%im); for complex uniform distribution

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):uniform_distribution_cdf(interface)]](x, loc, scale)`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Class
Elemental function.

```

### Arguments

`x`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`loc`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`scale`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

> The function is elemental, i.e., all three auguments could be arrays conformable to each other. All three arguments must have the same type and kind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All three arguments must have the same type and kind.
```

    a(:,:,:) = -1.0
    b(:,:,:) = 2.0
    x = reshape(uni(-1.0,2.0,60),[3,4,5]) ! uniform random variates array
    print *, uni_cdf(x,a,b)        ! cumulative array in [-1.0, 1.0]

!0.161520004  0.553248405  0.986900032  0.942091405  0.114239901  0.780188501  &
! 0.854656875  0.464386612  0.284466714  0.748768032  0.301834047  0.337008357  &
!0.568843365  0.596165061  0.180993259  0.614166319  0.214835495 7.98164606E-02 &
!0.641274095  0.607101977  0.701139212  0.230517209  1.97925568E-02 0.857982159 &
!0.712761045  0.139202654  0.361759573  0.796536088  0.356012046  0.197665215   &
!9.80764329E-02 0.781620383  0.595349193  0.125651121  0.957528770  0.942990601 &
!0.259489566  7.84273148E-02  0.779313922  0.317909390  0.559013724 0.421358019 &
!0.878484428  7.67416358E-02  0.298707575  0.693327367  0.146014273 0.102338850 &
!0.855926156  0.250811368  0.300751567  0.110186398  0.502883077  0.738479793   &
!0.764856219  0.294822574  1.90783739E-02 0.631218433 0.752170086  0.196848959

    loc = (0., 0.)
    scale=(2., 1.)
    print *, uni_cdf((1.2,0.5), loc, scale)
    ! joint cumulative distribution at (1.2,0.5) in [(0.,0.), (2.,1.)]

! 0.300000012
end program demo_uniform_cdf

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: stats_distribution
---

# Statistical Distributions -- Uniform Distribution Module

[TOC]

> ## `shuffle` - Using Fisher-Yates algorithm to generate a random permutation of a list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `shuffle` - Using Fisher-Yates algorithm to generate a random permutation of a list
```

With triple arguments `loc`, `scale` and `array_size` the function returns a rank one array of uniformly distributed variates of `integer`, `real` or `complex` type with an array size of `array_size`.

For `complex` type, the real part and imaginary part are independent of each other.

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):rvs_uniform(interface)]]([[loc,] scale] [[[,array_size]]])`

### Class

Elemental function (without the third argument).

### Arguments

`loc`: optional argument has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`scale`: optional argument has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`array_size`: optional argument has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`.

`loc` and `scale` must have the same type and kind when both are present.

### Return value

The result is a scalar or a rank one array, with size of `array_size`, of type `integer`, `real` or `complex` depending on the input type.

### Example

```fortran
program demo_uniform_rvs
    use stdlib_stats_distribution_PRNG, only:random_seed

>     use stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform, only:uni=> rvs_uniform

Reviewer 2: Minor point -- for clarity in the documentation, IMO it might be better to use the standard function names in the examples, rather than re-naming.

Reviewer: I agree

Author: Just to show users one kind of usage. Furthermore, `uni` is a more common name for uniform random variate.

! 0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000  0.500000000

    loc = (-0.5,-0.5)
    scale = (1.0,1.0)
    print *, uni_pdf((-0.1,0.2), loc, scale)
    ! joint probability density at (-0.1,0.2) in [(-0.5, -0.5), (0.5, 0.5)]

! 1.00000000
end program demo_uniform_pdf

```

## `uniform_distribution_cdf` - Uniform cumulative distribution function

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Cumulative distribution function of the uniform distribution

F(x) = (x - loc + 1) / (scale + 1);      for discrete uniform distribution.

F(x) = (x - loc) / scale;                for continuous uniform distribution.

F(x) = (x%re - loc%re)(x%im - loc%im) / (scale%re * scale%im); for complex uniform distribution.

### Syntax

`result = [[stdlib_stats_distribution_uniform(module):uniform_distribution_cdf(interface)]](x, loc, scale)`

### Class

Elemental function.

### Arguments

`x`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`loc`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

`scale`: has `intent(in)` and is a scalar of type `integer`, `real` or `complex`.

> All three auguments could be arrays conformable to each other. All three arguments must have the same type and kind.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All three arguments could be arrays conformable to each other. All three arguments must have the same type and kind.
```

---

> title: stats_distribution

Reviewer 3: Should this be:

```suggestion
title: stats_distribution_uniform
```

I noticed that `stats_distribution_PRNG` spec has the same `title` value in the header. If this was intended, please ignore this comment, I'm not too familiar with the details of how FORD deals with these things.

Author: Yes, the `title` is intended to be `stats_distribution`. The subtitle shows the difference.
